- Download [Tabular Editor 3.0.2](https://cdn.tabulareditor.com/files/TabularEditor.3.0.2.x86.msi)
- Download [Tabular Editor 3.0.2 (64 bit)](https://cdn.tabulareditor.com/files/TabularEditor.3.0.2.x64.msi)

*If you haven't used Tabular Editor 3 before, you are eligible to a 30 day trial, which can be requested after installation. You can also [purchase a license](https://tabulareditor.com/#licensing).*

**NOTE:** If you previously installed one of the BETA builds, you will have to manually uninstall that before installing this new version.

## Coming from Tabular Editor 2.x?

Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pt3DdcjfImY) to get an idea of the new features in Tabular Editor 3.

**Tabular Editor 3 major features overview:**
- Fully customizable IDE, with multi-monitor, Hi-DPI support and themes
- New powerful DAX code editor with auto-complete, syntax checking, code folding and much, much more
- *Workspace mode, allowing you to save your changes to disk and synchronise model metadata to Analysis Services simultaneously
- *Preview table data with infinite scrolling, create PivotGrids or write DAX queries to browse the model or test calculation logic
- *Update Table Schemas on both Provider and Structured Data Sources (yes, even for M queries!)
- *Schedule data refreshes
- Create data model diagrams
- Create DAX scripts that allow you to edit multiple measures or other calculated objects in a single document
- Record C# scripts and save as macros (formerly known as "Custom Actions")
- VertiPaq Analyzer integration

*=Only while connected to an instance of Analysis Services or Power BI

## Known issues

- Table Import Wizard didn't make it to this release. It will be available in 3.1.0 which is coming out very soon. As a work around, simply create a new table and specify the partition query (SQL or M). Then, right-click the table and choose "Update Table Schema..." to import columns.
- See [roadmap](https://github.com/TabularEditor/TabularEditor3/issues/12) for more information.

## New features in 3.0.2:

- You can now change your license key from the Help > About Tabular Editor dialog (option available only when no model is currently loaded).
- Added a "Revert" button in the main toolbar and File menu (you may need to restore the Default workspace to see it). When clicked, this button reloads the TOM from the connected source (Power BI model or Analysis Services database). It can be used to manually synchronize changes between the two, if the automatic option is disabled under Tools > Preferences.

## Bugfixes in 3.0.2:

- DAX Editor support for the TEXT / INTEGER keywords in the PATHITEM / PATHITEMREVERSE DAX functions.
- DAX Editor preferences are now persisted between sessions (see [#23](https://github.com/TabularEditor/TabularEditor3/issues/23))
- Various DAX Editor autocomplete / calltip improvements.
- Fixed issue [#14](https://github.com/TabularEditor/TabularEditor3/issues/14) (object errors not shown in TOM Explorer)
- Support for KMeansClustering DAX extension function.
- Fixed bug with DAX Parser reporting errors on comparing a value with BLANK() in the SWITCH function.
- A few minor visual updates
- Fixed a crash that would occur when trying to execute a DAX script that edits/adds objects that are unsupported on a Power BI Desktop file (for example, [we cannot yet add calculated tables or calculated columns through external tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/transform-model/desktop-external-tools))
- DetailRowsExpressions are now editable on measures when connected to a Power BI Desktop file.
- Fixed a bug with SciLexer.dll that caused a crash immediately upon startup in some cases.
- Column names in the DAX query are now shown as-is (no adding of spaces before capital letters
