# Tabular Editor 3 Security and Privacy

This document describes the security and privacy considerations of Tabular Editor 3 and its use. In the following, the phrase "Tabular Editor" can mean both the commercial tool Tabular Editor 3, as well as the open-source tool Tabular Editor 2.X. Whenever something considers only one of the tools, we will use their explicit names "Tabular Editor 3" or "Tabular Editor 2.X".

Tabular Editor is primarily an offline tool, meaning that all data and metadata reside locally in the client machine on which Tabular Editor is installed, and all user interactions are performed locally as well. An Internet connection is not required to run and use Tabular Editor.

That being said, there are scenarios in which Tabular Editor connects to remote services for various purposes. These are described in the following:

## Analysis Services XMLA Protocol

All communication with Analysis Services instances or Power BI Premium workspaces happens through the use of the [Microsoft Analysis Management Objects (AMO)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/analysis-services/amo/developing-with-analysis-management-objects-amo?view=asallproducts-allversions) client libraries, or more specifically, the [Tabular Object Model (TOM) extension for AMO](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/analysis-services/tom/introduction-to-the-tabular-object-model-tom-in-analysis-services-amo?view=asallproducts-allversions). These client libraries are provided by Microsoft for redistribution in 3rd party applications such as Tabular Editor. For licensing details, please refer to the [AMO EULA](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=852989).

When Tabular Editor connects to an instance of Analysis Services (local network or cloud) or a Power BI Premium workspace (cloud), this connection is performed through the client libraries mentioned above. By design, the AMO library handles the authentication and authorization of the user. Only users with administrative privileges on the Analysis Services instance or Power BI Premium workspace, are allowed to connect. This is no different than when using Microsoft tools such as SQL Server Management Studio or SQL Server Data Tools (which use the same client libraries for connectivity).

Once the AMO/TOM client library establishes connection, Tabular Editor will request the full Tabular Object Model (TOM) metadata for the specific Analysis Services database or Power BI dataset that the user wants to connect to. The AMO/TOM client library then serves this metadata to the client application (Tabular Editor) in a programmatic approach, allowing the application to apply metadata changes, such as renaming an object, adding a description, modifying a DAX expression, etc. In addition, the AMO/TOM client library provides methods for serializing the TOM metadata into a JSON-based format. Tabular Editor uses this technique to allow users to save the model metadata as a local JSON file, for purposes of version control of the data model structure. **Note: The JSON file produced this way contains no actual data records. The file contains only model metadata, that is, information about the structure of the model in terms of tables, columns, measures, DAX expressions, etc.** While model metadata is generally not considered confidential information, it is the responsibility of the user of Tabular Editor to handle any file produced this way with the required confidentiality (i.e. not sharing the file with 3rd parties, etc.).

